---
title: Bioinformatics Data Scientist at Just
position: Bioinformatics Data Scientist
templateKey: jobs-post
path: /jobs/just/bioinformatics-data-scientist
date: '2018-07-06T14:19:45-04:00'
companyRelated: /just
---
The **Bioinformatics Data Scientist** is a key member of our core R&D team and essential to the scientific growth of our company. The Bioinformatics Data Scientist will be responsible for developing and applying computational techniques to augment a screening platform designed to discover novel functionalities related to food systems. The Bioinformatics Data Scientist will also partner with experts in data engineering and assay automation to continue building out our computational infrastructure, and join a multi-disciplinary team of scientists, engineers, and chefs in the search for better, healthier, and more sustainable ways to produce food.



**Responsibilities:**

\- Analyze and interpret heterogeneous datasets generated by a unique technology platform that combines biochemistry, molecular biology, and food science.

\- Elucidate the landscape of phylogenetic, biochemical, and functional properties of novel materials derived from a proprietary plant library.

\- Collaborate with our data engineers on the design and development of a customized data storage, processing, and visualization infrastructure.

\- Collaborate extensively with biochemists and food scientists to translate scientific questions into testable hypotheses and draw appropriate inferences from experimental results.

\- Provide statistical support for the design and interpretation of experiments.



**Attributes:**

\- PhD in Bioinformatics, Biostatistics, Biophysics, Computational Biology, or related subject.

\- Proven experience developing and applying computational methods to diverse types of data.

\- Solid theoretical understanding of machine learning methods balanced by strong practical experience with implementation.

\- Enthusiastic about exploring complex datasets and thinking rigorously about scientific phenomena

\- Understanding of both the power and the limitations of applying machine learning and computational methods to biological systems.

\- Proficiency in high-level scripting languages (Python, R, MATLAB, etc.) and familiarity with modern open-source data science tools.

\- Experience in experimental biochemistry, molecular biology, or food science strongly preferred.

\- Experience with image processing and computer vision is a plus.

\- Mission-driven, self-directed and enthusiastic about collaborating with an inter-disciplinary team of scientists and engineers.
