---
title: ' Research Associate I at Perfect Day'
position: ' Research Associate I'
templateKey: jobs-post
path: /jobs/perfectday/research-associate
date: '2018-12-11T15:04:08+04:00'
companyRelated: /perfectday
---
Perfect Day is close to commercializing its first animal-free dairy protein products and we are seeking an intelligent, motivated, enthusiastic **Research Associate I** to join our Analytical team. The Analytical team develops and runs bioanalytical and food related assays of samples generated by other teams within Perfect Day, propelling the company forward with data-driven decisions and directions. The ideal candidate will be driven and will do what it takes to contribute to a small team in a fast paced, startup environment. An ideal candidate will have experience operating and maintaining HPLCs.

**Role and Responsibilities:**

\- Routine sample preparation for and operation of UHPLCs with various column chemistries (reverse phase, size exclusion, ion exchange, etc)

\- UHPLC mobile phase preparation and batch record documentation.

\- Data analysis, statistical analysis, and data reporting

\- Prepare samples for, run, and report data for other protein and food related assays such as SDS-PAGE, 96 well plate colorimetric assays, moisture, and ash quantification.

\- Maintain instruments at optimum performance through routine maintenance and QA/QC procedures.

\- Work in a team, being proactive in your work, seeking opportunities to build your understanding, and contributing to a collegial environment.

\- Maintain timely and thorough documentation of work.

\- Maintain a high degree of accuracy and meticulous attention to detail.



**Requirements:**

\- B.S. in chemistry, biochemistry, or related field with 2+ years of analytical chemistry or protein biochemistry related experience.

\- Candidate must possess a high level of technical aptitude, excellent communication, organization, and collaborative skills, and demonstrated ability to innovate, troubleshoot, and thrive in a dynamic cross-functional team environment.

\- Experience with bioanalytical assays including UHPLC, SDS-PAGE, UV-Vis, fluorometry, and 96 well plate assays.

\- Ability to adapt to a rapidly changing environment.

\- Maintain a high degree of accuracy and meticulous attention to detail.

\- Capable of high performance in independent work and in team setting.

\- Experience working with high-throughput systems (96 well plate formats) is desirable.

\- Experience with automation, database input, query, and extraction are desirable.

\- Experience with Python, R, or other programming language is desirable. 



**Required Education:** B.S. in Chemistry, Biochemistry, or related discipline.



**Area(s) of Expertise Desired**: (U)HPLC, protein biochemistry, experimental design and data analysis



**Physical Demands:**

Position requires the ability to stand or sit for prolonged periods, climb, kneel, bend, and consistently lift up to 50 lbs.

 

**Work Environment:**

Position located in a mix of typical laboratory, workshop and kitchen environments, and requires a tolerance for high worker traffic, close quarters, noise, odors, dust, transiently wet and dirty floors, and varying room temperatures and lighting.
